January 2025 newsletter blog (#304)
ddev/ddev.com: src/content/blog/ddev-jan-2025-newsletter.md

---
title: "DDEV January 2025 Newsletter"
pubDate: 2025-01-08
#modifiedDate: 2024-09-06
summary: DDEV January 2025 Newsletter
author: Randy Fay
#featureImage:
#  src: /img/blog/2024/12/nancy_lewis_colorado_river.jpg
#  alt: Nancy Lewis painting of Colorado River near Palisade, Colorado
#  credit: Nancy Lewis painting of the Colorado River near Palisade, Colorado
categories:
  - Community
---

**Happy New Year DDEV Community!**

> Our most important news of the month is both bad and good. Our lead sponsor, Platform.sh, has decided to reduce and change its sponsorship amount, but also to transfer to the DDEV Foundation the "DDEV" trademark and the domains that go with it, and they will continue sponsoring DDEV at a lower financial level. You can read all about it in the [change announcement blog](20241226_platformsh_changes20241226_platformsh_changes). But the TL;DR is that we need every organization and individual to step up their financial support in order to ensure DDEV's future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our most important news of the month is both bad and good. Our lead sponsor, Platform.sh, has decided to reduce and change its sponsorship amount, but also to transfer to the DDEV Foundation the "DDEV" trademark and the domains that go with it, and they will continue sponsoring DDEV at a lower financial level. You can read all about it in the [change announcement blog](platform-sh-ddev-funding-changes.md). But the TL;DR is that we need every organization and individual to step up their financial support in order to ensure DDEV's future.
```

**DDEV v1.24.1** was released with minor changes.

**DDEV's TYPO3 Community Budget Idea was accepted!** TYPO3's [community budget process](https://typo3.org/article/budget-2025-ideas-for-quarter-1-2025-published-vote-now) is an outstanding process for funding community ideas. We'll be improving DDEV's xhprof and xhgui even beyond where [@tyler36](https://github.com/tyler36) has already taken the [DDEV xhgui add-on](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-xhgui) and incorporate it into core, and at completion the TYPO3 Association will fund the project for €7500, a fantastic contribution.

**DDEV Notes and News**

> - [DDEV Advisory Group Meeting](https://github.com/orgs/ddev/discussions/6682). This month's meeting is Wednesday, January 8, 2025, and is a critical discussion of our financial situation, budget, and plans based on recent news [join us](https://www.meetup.com/ddev-events/events/303197425). If you'd like a calendar invitation instead of the meetup signup, just reply to this email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DDEV Advisory Group Meeting](https://github.com/orgs/ddev/discussions/6853). This month's meeting is Wednesday, January 8, 2025, and is a critical discussion of our financial situation, budget, and plans based on recent news [join us](https://www.meetup.com/ddev-events/events/303197445). If you'd like a calendar invitation instead of the meetup signup, just reply to this email.
```

- [DDEV, solr, and platform.sh](https://www.computerminds.co.uk/articles/ddev-solr-and-platformsh)
- [Joshuami blog on Drupal CMS (via DDEV)](https://joshuami.com/blog/2024-12/blog-drupal-cms-starshot-kinda-now/)

> - [Testing Drupal 11 with Cypress and DDEV](https://www.thedroptimes.com/44845/how-test-drupal-11-using-cypress-and-ddev-drupaladicto-explains) shows how to use [@tyler36](https://github.com/tyler36)'s excellent [Cypress add-on for DDEV](https://github.com/tyler36/ddev-cypress).

Reviewer 2: It links to a Spanish-lanaguage setup video.

Author: I hadn't realized that. Glad I didn't lik directly to the video.

- [Contao CMS docs show preferred DDEV approach](https://docs.contao.org/manual/en/guides/local-installation/ddev/)
- DDEV Releases and announcements are now made on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/ddev.bsky.social) as well as other social networks, but no longer on X/Twitter.

> **Funding DDEV and especially Maintainer Stas**: _We need your help and your organization's help! Let me know if you need help getting this into your 2025 budget!_ Our key financial goal is to [fully fund @stasadev so he can work exclusively on DDEV](lets-fund-stas-maintainer.md). We've slipped back in recent months. We need about $3700/month in increased pledges from organizations and individuals. See [Full information about supporting DDEV](https://github.com/sponsors/ddev). We’re happy to invoice you, happy to [do a call discussing this](https://cal.com/randyfay/30min), and would love it if you’d include DDEV in your 2025 budgeting process. (Our current status: We receive about $3000/month, have been spending about $3000-$4000/month. Bank balance is about $8683 down from $9,300 last month.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Funding DDEV and especially maintainer Stas**: _We need your help and your organization's help! Let me know if you need help getting this into your 2025 budget!_ Our key financial goal is to [fully fund @stasadev so he can work exclusively on DDEV](lets-fund-stas-maintainer.md). We've slipped back in recent months. We need about $3700/month in increased pledges from organizations and individuals. See [Full information about supporting DDEV](https://github.com/sponsors/ddev). We’re happy to invoice you, happy to [do a call discussing this](https://cal.com/randyfay/30min), and would love it if you’d include DDEV in your 2025 budgeting process. (Our current status: We receive about $3000/month, have been spending about $3000-$4000/month. Bank balance is about $8683 down from $9,300 last month.)
```

Author: I guess "Maintainer" here is a title, so that's why I would capitalize, but both usages would be correct.

**THANKS to all of you who are supporting DDEV’s path to sustainability** and who have gotten your organizations to do so.

Want to keep up as the month goes along? Follow on

- [blog](https://ddev.com/blog/)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/ddev-foundation)
- [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@ddev)
- [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/ddev.bsky.social)
- and join our community on [Discord](/s/discord)

> Happy December from Randy Fay, DDEV Project Lead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Happy January from Randy Fay, DDEV Project Lead.
```

Seems strange to say Decemeber when the newsletter pubdate is January.

Author: Oops, thanks. Copy pasta.

---
title: "DDEV January 2025 Newsletter"
pubDate: 2025-01-06
#modifiedDate: 2024-09-06
summary: DDEV January 2025 Newsletter
author: Randy Fay
featureImage:
  src: /img/blog/2025/01/mtgarfield.jpg
  alt: Mount Garfield over Palisade, Colorado, 2025-01-07
  credit: View of Mount Garfield above Palisade, Colorado on my walk to work today, January 6, 2025
categories:
  - Community
---

**Happy New Year DDEV Community!**

> Our most important news of the month is both bad and good. Our lead sponsor, Platform.sh, has decided to reduce and change its sponsorship amount, but also to transfer to the DDEV Foundation the "DDEV" trademark and the domains that go with it, and they will continue sponsoring DDEV at a lower financial level. You can read all about it in the [change announcement blog](platform-sh-ddev-funding-changes.md). But the TL;DR is that we need every organization and individual to step up their financial support in order to ensure DDEV's future.

Reviewer 3: ```Our lead sponsor, Platform.sh, has decided to reduce and change its sponsorship amount, but also to transfer to the DDEV Foundation the "DDEV" trademark and the domains that go with it, and they will continue sponsoring DDEV at a lower financial level.```

the sentence is sort of hard to understand (but i've struggled to come up with a better suggestion so far). my gripe is that first it is stated that the plattform.sh will reduce and change sponsorship... then the sentence switches to the fact that the trademark and the domains are transfered to the ddev foundation and then the sentence switches back to the topic from the beginning saying plattform sh keeps sponsoring but at a lower financial level. maybe it makes sense to strike that third part revisiting the financial aspects and combine that into the first part?

Author: Probably needs some sub-bullets.
